# Quick Altera Files Details
These are some information about Intel/Altera tools that are available on the internet but I took a long time to find and understand them. If you're working on a similar project I hope you already know these or similar, but if you don't, I hope this helps.


## Important Files and Directories
These are important and you should avoid deleting them unless you want to redo your work or reconfigure your tools

### Quartus
- <project name>.qpf : Defines the Quartus Project metadata like date, evision, etc. honestly it's always barelly filled but it's still needed
- <project name>.qsf : Defines Most important things in the project, what files are on it, what board is being targeted, pin assignments, simulation details, etc.
- <project name>.sdc : Defines timing constraints, if you're doing something simple/slow it doesn't matter that much, if it's complicated/fast it's your only hope it will work on real hardware

### Qsys/Plataform Designer

- <platform name>.qsys : Defines the plataform being designed on Qsys, the connections, name of components, configurations, etc. It does not contain components themselves but how they are organized into the platform

TODO

## Generated Source Files and Directories
These are files that we generate while using the tools, they define hardware or behavior and although they were not handwritten, they are sourced by other tools in the same way as handwritten files. While they can be regenerated by the tools it will take time and effort to go trough all the menus or at least running the originals scripts/commands. They are source files (verilog/vhdl etc) that are generated by Quartus tools

### Quartus
- MegaWizard : Is one of the older tools to generate these on Quartus, it can generate pll and other Intel/Altera IP, the output is unfortunatelly highly unorganized unless you define a custom path for it. Otherwise they will pile up on your project folder. There might be some generated folders as <component_name> and <component_namse>_sim but if you don't keep track of them yourself it can be hard to identify them later (specially considering that I'm writing for pseudo lay-person like me that need help with this)

### Qsys
- <plataform name> : it's a folder created by quartus with files and definitions for components, include both the components themselves, their definitions, behaviors, etc. But also contain related helper files like rtl simulations and parameter definitions



## Fully Generated Files and Directories
These are generated by the programs with time as the only cost. No effort needed to regenerate them. If your project is small/simple it will take from 30 seconds to 2 minutes to regenerate these files. If your project is more complex it might take 40 minutes, but that is it. No need to navigate Quartus' confusing GUI or handwriting. Not only they are safe to delete, but you might need to in some contexts. Quartus can be a pain in the ass if you use version control like git, and it will easily corrupt simulation, programming or other systems if it keeps using older files it generated.

Unless you have a specific reason you should not track these files on git

simulation:

output_files:

db:

incremental_db:


## Other
